We're placing your zone of the
city under complete quarantine.
LEX:
Sayid was not Patient Zero.
The real guy is
someone Lommers knew.
$5,000 a head, I can bust
you out of the Cordon.
How much money
do you have?
Enough for a
half a person.
I want you to resign.
I'm here today to confess.
The virus was created by
a scientist at the CDC
named Dr. Victor Cannerts.
She turned all the evidence
we had against her
into evidence against Cannerts.
Lommers is tying up loose ends,
and we're next.
Leo?
ROY:
You think someone took him?
I don't think he ran.
I didn't order pizza.
PIZZA MAN:
Prepaid by a Major Mouthpiece.
JAKE:
There's no version of my life
that doesn't have you in it.
You and I can sit down...
(coughing)
Promise me you will get
him out of here alive.
I promise.
(coughing)
(gasping for air)
(inhales loudly)
(gasping)
I love you.
(gasping loudly)
(static, whirring
of radio dial turning)
QUENTIN:
Jake?
Yeah, buddy.
Where do you think
she is now?
(door opens)
Jake?
You asked me to tell you
when it was safe
for you to...
Hey, Quentin,
try and get some sleep, okay?
♪ If to distant lands
I scatter ♪
♪ If I sail ♪
♪ To the farthest seas ♪
(sniffles)
♪ Would you find
and firm and gather ♪
♪ Till I only dwell in Thee? ♪
♪ If I flee
from greenest pastures ♪
♪ Would you leave
to look for me? ♪
♪ Forfeit glory
to come after ♪
♪ Till I only dwell in Thee. ♪
CANNERTS: I must declare
the virus as highly contagious
and fatal in 100%
of its victims.
LOMMERS:
I recommend we institute
a cordon sanitaire to contain
the spread of the virus.
LEX:
What I need is the truth.
JAKE: We are in the middle
of the damn hot zone.
(screams)
LEX: Jana!
If we let anyone out,
we're risking the lives
of everyone in this city.
DRIVER:
Listen up, Cordon.
I got a real bombshell
for you today.
Before these fascists
cut me off...
Every damn morning.
I mean, what makes you think
anyone's listening in there?
This is from a press conference
Dr. Lommers held yesterday.
(indistinct shouting)
LOMMERS (on recording):
I'm here today to confess.
You have been misled.
The virus was manipulated
in a lab
here in our own country
through a dangerous
and irresponsible
Gain-of-Function study.
These studies are currently
not permissible
in the United States
due to the potential
for accidental outbreaks
like this one.
This virus was created
by a scientist at the CDC
named Dr. Victor Cannerts.
Another researcher
was accidentally exposed...
MAN:
Cannerts must pay!
...into the world.
WOMAN (on radio):
After swinging wildly
in light of recent revelations
of the virus's origins,
the Dow has begun to stabilize.
Investors hope to finish the day
in positive territory,
lead by strong speculation
in the biotech sector.
The Syrian ambassador
has yet to formally
either confirm or deny
Syria's involvement in the...
(turns off radio)
(clack, lights buzzing)
(sighs)
JANA: I didn't say
it was gonna be easy,
but Meese's escape plan
is our best shot.
SUZY:
I just watched Teresa
have a baby in the clean room.
In my present condition,
I'm all for it.
How are we supposed
to find $5,000 a head?
Well, we already have
almost $10,000, and
it doesn't have to be cash.
He said he'd take stuff
he can pawn.
Not to be all realistic,
but unless Meese wants
to be paid in swivel chairs,
there's nothing worth
anything left in this building.
Well, then, we're just gonna
have to dig a little deeper.
We need to scour
the building, and fast
if we're gonna meet Meese
tonight to start our quarantine.
CSO tunnels will look good
after we've been cramped up
for a couple of days.
What does "CSO" stand for?
Combined Sewer Overflow.
Goody.
So, we're not going.
We're heading to
my grandma's house.
Teresa's worried
about the money.
It's safer there.
Hey, look, if a bunch
of yahoos like us
can bring this
kid into the world,
we can find a way to get us all
out of the Cordon.
(sighs)
Maybe when
she's a little stronger.
We'll miss you.
Thanks for adopting us. I...
I really
don't know what
we would have done
without all of you.
SUZY:
Come find me in eight months
and return the favor.
(laughs)
MAN:
Back it up.
(crowd chatter, laughter)
Look, all this profit,
and I'm drinking
freeze-dried.
Should have held up
a coffee shop.
Yeah, you're right.
Drop it!
Look who's back.
Food Drop Cowboy.
Technically, it's Officer Riley.
Technically, you're
in my jurisdiction,
and you know
what to do.
(door squeaks open)
(distant barking)
MEESE:
Come to join
the traitors?
I came to buy booze.
My, oh, my.
Less than ten cops
left in the Cordon.
Two are my guests.
Cinco, get the boys
and rustle up a bottle
of bourbon for the man.
CINCO:
Come on, man.
Mm-hmm.
MAN:
All right.
(lights buzzing softly)
(humming)
(creaking)
(grunts softly)
So Sam is right.
This entire building
has been picked clean.
Not the entire building.
Guess what survived the attack.
Computer drives?
Not just any computer drives.
This one's
from Phillips Merchant Bank.
There's, like,
a thousand credit
card numbers on here.
That's gonna raise a ton
on the black market.
So you want to go from the
Cordon straight to prison?
Minimum security prison.
It's better
than this place.
And who's gonna prove
we did it?
Look, Meese just wants
to make money, right?
Maybe we offer him
the three-for-two deal.
(scoffs)
JANA:
The only way
to find out
is to ask.
(sighs)
(sighs heavily)
(dogs barking in distance)
TREY:
Little tip.
It's damn hard to get drunk
when you want to.
When Cinco and me were kids,
we'd steal two
or three pulls
off my mama's stash,
and we'd get lit.
Especially Cinco.
That kid
would just fall over laughing.
No tolerance.
One day, our cousin got shot.
Not enough liquor in the whole
world to make it better.
Some stuff...
nothing'll take the edge off.
Just is what it is.
SAM:
Get your hands off her.
MAN: Everyone gets searched.
JANA:
Cut it out.
We're not armed.
Jana? What are you doing here?
SAM:
Actually,
I need to see Meese.
I believe
Mr. Meese
is presently open for business.
What the hell was that about?
(sighs)
Escaping the Cordon.
Meese has a way to get out.
BERT:
It's so good to see you both.
Micheline,
we've got company.
Oh! Teresa!
Hi.
Why are you limping, Grandpa?
Oh, not to worry.
It's, uh, just a little sprain.
Oh, my goodness, is that...
I thought you should meet
your great-granddaughter.
Oh.
Oh, honey,
she's perfect.
Were you able
to get to a hospital
or did your mom help you
with the birth?
Mom wasn't there.
Has she seen her yet?
Grandma, I...
I don't know how to...
Is Leanne all right?
Um... no, Bert.
She's gone, isn't she?
I had a feeling.
Oh, Michi...
We wondered,
when we hadn't heard from her.
I'm so sorry.
(crying)
Oh, my love,
is...
is there anything
we can do for you?
(sniffles)
Yes.
I want to hold
her granddaughter.
We can do that.
Have you chosen a name?
It's Leanne.
(both crying)
JANA:
It's safe, Jake.
I know what you're
gonna say, but...
but I miss Lex.
I have to try.
So please don't judge me.
I don't.
Something's wrong.
What happened?
Hey.
Tell me.
I took your advice.
I told Katie I loved her.
Jake?
Oh, no.
Oh, Jake,
I'm so sorry.
The last thing
she asked me to do
was to get her son out of here.
Jake, come with us.
SAM:
Meese won't
make a deal.
(sighs)
Look, I-I know you say
we're all in this together,
but I need to get home to Nick.
I have to do this, Jana,
even if I'm going alone.
Okay, we still have
a few more hours.
Okay? We will
find a way.
And you need to find
a way, too, Jake.
Come on. Come on.
ROY:
What did you find
in Leo's storage?
LEX:
A name I've never heard before.
Katrina Hobbs.
Whoever paid off Meese's wife
gave Katrina Hobbs $250,000.
She has no priors.
Sounds
like you're onto something.
You better move quick.
Yeah, but she could be any one
with these names.
I mean, I don't even know
what I'm looking for.
Wait.
Found an old obit.
"Former Army Corporal
Noah Hobbs,
"27, beloved son
of Katrina Hobbs,
"died in a workplace accident.
"A CBRN specialist, he served in
Afghanistan and Iraq."
Well-well, what's CBRN?
Chemical, Biological,
Radiological, and Nuclear.
I'd start with her.
Yeah.
(chuckles)
Don't worry about him.
You did your quarantine.
You're getting out.
I should shut you down,
you money-grubbing dirtbag.
You here to give me a lecture?
I'm here to see
if you'll take two more.
(indistinct shouting nearby)
Oh, please. Please
leave that to us.
No.
Yes, yes. You should take
a nap before you go, Teresa.
Actually, Grandma,
we were hoping it'd be okay
to stay here with you
for a while.
Xander, let me do that.
Oh, it's fine.
You should rest, with that leg.
It's the least...
We'll just rinse the dishes.
(crying)
(quietly):
It's all an act.
They must've used
the last food they had on us.
They don't have enough
for themselves, let alone us.
We can share our MREs
until the next food drop.
The food drop Trey will steal
and make us pay for?
Tee, we've got to do
the escape plan.
I'm just thinking of Leanne.
What if something goes wrong
in one of those tunnels?
You don't know that
we could keep her safe.
And even if we could, how
are we supposed to come up
with $15,000?
We're not
going anywhere.
(water running)
ANNOUNCER:
The ACLU continues its efforts
to restore communication
inside the Cordon, as
they prepare to bring their case
to both the state...
Katrina Hobbs?
Atlanta PD.
I'm chasing a cold case.
I was hoping
you might be able to help.
Is that a new car?
Nice ride.
Did you win the lottery?
Farthest thing from it.
My son Noah came back
from Afghanistan in one piece
and then died falling off
a ladder at work
over a year
ago now.
I'm sorry to hear that.
His company gave me
a settlement.
What kind of work did he do?
He was a clerk at Anderson
Supply, in the warehouse.
Where's the warehouse?
I've never been there,
but I know it's off
Route 92 by
the mini-mart.
I'm sorry, but if I'm late
for my doctor's appointment...
Of course. Of course. Thank you
so much, ma'am. You've been...
really helpful.
QUENTIN:
I don't know, Jake.
It's your call, Q.
I promised your mom
I'd get you out, and...
and I think
this is the way.
We have to go tonight.
But this is the last place
I saw her.
The farther I go
from here...
I know.
But you know the...
that question
you were asking me earlier,
about where she is now?
Yeah.
Well, look, I-I won't lie
to you, I don't...
I don't know how
it works, exactly,
but I know that your mom
loved you very much.
I know that people
that love us, uh,
they stay with us.
Even from far away?
Even from far away.
And if she wasn't with us
right now,
why would I...
be so worried about doing
what she asked me to
and making her proud?
What if I don't want to go?
Well, then we stay here
together.
I'm only going if you do.
Hey, you're my deputy.
What do you say?
My mom wanted it.
We should go.
(hinges creaking)
Thank you.
♪ ♪
(crowd chanting angrily)
(chanting continues)
WOMAN: Dr. Cannerts,
he got to go!
(chanting continues)
Sounds like the doctor's
a dead man.
CANNERTS:
Having been immunized
using antibodies
derived from Thomas Graham's
blood serum,
Katie Frank survived longer
than anyone.
But her death,
due to the virus,
suggests that this antiserum
treatment alone
isn't effective.
The only known patient
to survive the acute phase
of the virus into an
asymptomatic latent phase
is Thomas Graham, but why?
What makes him unique?
Blood tests reveal that Thomas
naturally produces
extremely high levels
of interferon.
It may be that these elevated
levels of interferon
are protective.
It's possible
that combining interferon
with antiserum derived
from Thomas' blood
might stimulate the immune
system to fight the virus,
thus preventing the patient
from being overwhelmed.
Dr. Cannerts?
Hey.
We need to talk.
Jake, I've been working
since dawn
and I realize
it's a small comfort,
but you should know
that what we learned from Katie
may eventually lead
to a vaccine.
Eventually. Yeah.
'Cause the thing is...
TREY: Well,
if it isn't Dr. Death himself.
Excuse me.
Gentlemen.
Hey, what's going on, Trey?
Oh, same old, same old.
After blaming the brown kid
from Syria,
turns out he had nothing
to do with this mess.
News from the outside says
Dr. Cannerts created the virus.
The way I see it,
somebody's got to put a bullet
in the man's head.
You raise that thing
and I will throw your ass
in the isolation ward
without a mask.
So, whoever it is
you're grieving
died from natural causes?
Look, I'm not crazy
about him either,
but Cannerts didn't
create the virus.
He's trying to save everyone
in the Cordon.
And like it or not,
he's the only one who can.
Yeah, well, the word is out.
If I don't do it,
somebody else will.
(gun clicks)
Yeah, yeah, but if you
help me protect him,
you and your guys can be first
in line for a vaccine.
There's a vaccine?
He just told me
he's getting close.
Fine.
(gun clicks)
We'll protect him.
First in line, right, Doc?
Welcome to the Cordon P.D.
(laughing)
Cinco, you hear that?
CINCO: Let's do it.
TREY:
Come on.
You know, years ago, after
your mom's dad passed away,
I took her and went back
to my parents' house
because it was familiar
and safe.
I can't imagine you scared.
Oh, I was a mess.
And then I met Bert.
I-it shames me to say it
but I grew up in what was known
as a sundown town.
No black person walking around
after sundown was safe.
That's insane.
Yeah.
The first time Bert came over,
he left before sundown,
but that wasn't good enough
for our neighbors.
The next day your mother came
home from school black and blue.
I left the very next day.
I realized that I could not
buy my security
at the expense of my daughters.
Being here may feel safe
to you,
but nowhere in the Cordon
is safe.
Do you know the phrase
"carpe diem"?
"Seize the day."
Well, I was planning
to give you this on your 21st,
but carpe diem, right?
Grandma, your pearls.
Pearls? That's funny.
I see three tickets out of here
for you and your family.
CANNERTS: I'm nowhere near
having a vaccine,
and you know it.
I said you were working on one.
That's the only reason
they're protecting you.
Look, as long as they think
they have something to gain,
they'll keep you
safe after I go.
Well, where are you going?
Without you here...
Yeah, I know.
Believe me, if I could be in
two places at once, I would.
Just keep trying to find
a way to stop the virus.
You'll be fine.
I'm sorry.
(grunting)
SUZY: I've decided I'm quitting.
Too many memories.
(grunting)
I hate to break it to you,
but there isn't any job to quit.
I just want to get
into this stupid safe.
The only thing he kept in there
were private contracts.
Yeah, but still,
Dennis had a gun, right?
And guys who have guns,
usually have more than one.
I mean, Meese would take that.
It doesn't matter.
Unless you plan on throwing
that safe out the window,
the only way
you're going to open it
is to figure out
the combination.
(sighs)
Fine.
(exhales)
You knew Dennis
better than anyone--
give me a number.
(groans):
Oh, Jana...
Could be anything.
(sighs): Uh...
zero-one-17.
His birthday.
(beep)
Nope. Try again.
His daughter's... is 12/11.
(beep)
Nope.
Try zero-nine-
zero-eight.
His wife.
How do you know that?
(beep)
He had me send her flowers.
(groans)
(sighs)
(rapid beeping)
What did you do?
One birthday we didn't try.
Yours.
You were right--
there aren't any guns in here.
Just this.
Open it.
It's obviously for you.
Your birthday's in two weeks.
His wedding
anniversary's
two days later.
Oh.
(sighs)
(exhales)
Wow.
Guy had taste.
And money.
It's engraved.
What does it say?
"I love you."
Well, that's definitive.
I'm sorry.
I was quitting anyway.
Looks like I just got
my severance pay.
(exhales)
Let's go see Lex.
(door creaks)
(door creaking)
(closing door echoes)
♪ ♪
(gasps)
(closing door echoes)
LEX:
Lies on top of lies.
Patient Zero
wasn't Sayid Nassir
or Henry Burns.
Patient Zero was Noah Hobbs.
18 months ago, while conducting
illegal
gain-of-function studies,
Henry Burns
successfully mutated a virus
so virulent that when
Noah Hobbs was exposed to it,
you and Henry Burns
covered it up
and closed the lab.
Cannerts didn't create
this thing.
Henry Burns did.
It's a miracle that Noah Hobbs
didn't leave that building
after he was infected.
It was a miracle that
he didn't start an outbreak
a hundred times
as deadly as this one.
But after dodging
that bullet,
you set Henry Burns up
with a new facility
to recreate the virus.
Then 19 days ago
he accidentally gets infected
by his own virus, but now
you can't shut it down.
God knows
how many people are dead--
all because
you kept going,
putting the entire world
at risk!
What can I say, Lex?
Guilty as charged.
So you admit it.
If you're accusing me of
protecting the population,
then yes,
I'm guilty.
Do you know what
the budget is
to defend...
I didn't come here
to talk about...
The country's budget to defend
against a nuclear attack
is $20 billion.
The budget to defend
against bioterrorism
is less than a quarter of that.
In order to create and launch
a nuclear weapon,
you need, among other things,
uranium and plutonium.
Hard to find.
Harder to process.
In order to create a
bio-weapon, you need
an okay scientist and a dream.
So you put us all at risk
in case they do?
Sometimes protecting people
puts them at risk.
But if there is a virus
that can be mutated
to be deadly,
we need to know it.
If we can mutate this virus,
so can our enemies.
If we can mutate it
and create a cure,
then we can survive an attack.
It's that simple.
But with government
funding cuts
and pharmaceuticals
focused on the next
little blue pill,
staying ahead of the game
isn't easy.
Who are you staying ahead of?
Sayid Nassir?
The innocent kid
that you-you pinned
this outbreak on?
The Syrians who you falsely
accused of attacking us? Me?
Leo Greene said
that we were the loose ends
that you needed to tie up.
You're letting conspiracies
go to your head.
I...
Can you not see
how twisted this is?!
Are you aware of the
significance of August 23?
No.
Because that's the day the
federal government prevented
the last bioterror attack.
Nobody hands out attaboys
for not dying of the plague.
But I did my job.
There is no excuse
for what you did.
You wouldn't be saying that
if I had a vaccine,
and I'm not gonna apologize
for having the guts to try.
Americans want security
from their enemies
without the responsibility
for how it happens!
So you need me, Lex,
because I face facts.
And if it takes
every last person
in the Cordon dying to increase
our odds of survival,
then so be it.
Grow up, Lex.
I'm your best defense.
(phone rings)
Yes?
Where?
I'll be right there.
There was a breach
of the Cordon.
The escapee made it to the DMZ
before he was caught.
Lex, you don't want
this plague getting out
any more than I do.
Fight me later.
Fight the virus now.
TERESA:
Thanks for everything.
I love you.
I love you, too.
We left you some MREs
in the kitchen.
Thank you, Xander.
Take care of
each other,
my loves.
(Leanne fussing quietly)
(dog barking in distance)
(sighs)
♪ ♪
(door closes)
Do you think they knew?
Not at all.
We should, um,
disinfect your cut again.
How's it looking?
Not so great, Berty.
(crickets chirping)
Dr. Cannerts.
Yes?
JAKE:
Hey.
(coughing)
Back off.
He's the reason I'm sick!
No. You don't want to do this.
TREY: Cinco. Cinco.
(coughing)
Trey! Wait!
(continues coughing)
Stay away from my brother!
Wait!
This treatment
is entirely untested.
I have no idea how
or if it will work.
You better hope my brother's
still alive in two days.
Or me and my boys
will come back
and take you
and this whole hospital
down with him.
MEESE:
No way.
But we can pay.
These pearls are worth
way more than you're asking.
It's not that.
I'm not taking that baby.
What if it cries?
It'll give us away.
Meese.
You're saying no to a baby?
I told this guy
no freebies, Jana.
Not even for you.
SAM:
We have the money.
So do they.
It's all you care about,
so what's the problem?
I'm the one taking the risk.
And making a profit.
Come on, man,
what kind of person
wouldn't help a baby
out of here?
You know what, you're right.
The baby's going.
You stay.
What? Come on, Meese,
that's crazy.
I don't need his attitude.
He's not
coming with me.
Then neither am I.
We come as a package.
You take us
or leave us.
Looks like I'm not
working tonight.
Wait.
You take them.
I'll stay.
No. No.
No.
No. Not when you could have
gone on your own.
Suzy is pregnant.
And she won't go without you.
Take it.
Thank you.
I'm so sorry.
Do me a favor.
Call Nick.
You tell him...
that I'm fine.
And I'll see him soon.
♪ ♪
What was that you said
about making me proud?
But I can't
go without you.
As my deputy,
you get my duty as a cop.
You know, someone's in trouble,
I have to protect them.
And, well, things
aren't going so well
for Dr. Cannerts
right now.
If he's safe there's still hope
for everyone in the Cordon,
but... for the next 48 hours
he's not safe.
And I need to help him.
Then I'll wait too.
I can help.
You see, that's why
you're such a great deputy.
But you're...
you're not just my deputy.
You're...
you're pretty much
my family now.
If you don't go tonight there
might not be another chance.
But you said we could
stay here together.
Yeah, I know.
Hey, you remember...
remember what I said
about your mom
being here with us?
Well, I'm pretty sure
she'd find a way to kick my ass
if I didn't keep
my promise to get you out.
But the thing is, I don't
think she'd want me to leave
all these people behind
to die either.
And I want so much
for her to be proud of us.
But I don't want
to say good-bye to you.
Oh, buddy, come here.
It's not good-bye and you're
not going alone, okay?
I promise I will find you
as soon as I can.
Hey, hey...
we're a team now, okay?
Okay? Don't you forget that.
Okay?
It's okay.
(indistinct
police radio chatter)
LEX:
Walden?
You shot him?
Just following orders, Lex.
Let me see him.
No sign of the virus.
We need to have him
cremated immediately.
We can't take
any chances.
14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19.
All right.
It's time to start
your quarantine--
everyone follow me.
Jana.
Hey, Jake.
You coming?
Uh...
no.
But he is.
Look, I know
it's...
I know it's a lot to ask.
That's to
give him.
♪ Caught in the riptide ♪
You must be Quentin.
I'm Jana.
Looks like the two of us
are going on a little adventure.
You ready?
♪ There was a reason ♪
See you soon, buddy.
Okay?
♪ I collided into you ♪
LOMMERS:
Though we feel
for those inside,
they pose too great a threat.
So now, more than ever,
we need to work together
to shut this down.
After everything we've done
to protect our city,
we can't let our guard down now.
We need to ensure
that today is the first
and the last time
that the Cordon is breached.
No one in
and no one out.
Hey, guys.
This is Quentin.
He's coming with us.
Hey, Quentin.
Hi.
All right, let's go.
♪ Reaching for you ♪
♪ From the endless dream ♪
♪ So many miles ♪
♪ Between us now ♪
♪ But you are always ♪
♪ Here with me ♪
(door closes)
♪ You are always here with me. ♪